After a meal, your body absorbs
essential nutrients and substances.
As part of the digestion process,
the small intestine separates
cholesterol from food
and transports it through the
lymphatic system and into the bloodstream.
Once these particles reach the liver,
they are modified into processed forms
of cholesterol known as HDL and LDL.
Your liver produces about three-quarters
of the cholesterol in your body.
The remainder comes from what you eat.
HDL, often referred to as “good cholesterol,”
lowers the risk of heart and cardiovascular problems.
LDL, known as “bad cholesterol,”
significantly raises the risk of health problems,
including atherosclerosis and heart disease.
LDL causes plaque to build up
in artery walls and restricts blood flow.
When you eat high fiber foods such as
oatmeal, beans and vegetables,
your HDL level rises.
The fiber holds water as it passes
through the digestive tract.
These particles slow digestion
and block your body’s ability to absorb cholesterol.
As a result, the cholesterol passes
through your digestive tract
and your body eliminates it along with other waste.
A high fiber diet is part of a healthy lifestyle.
It significantly reduces bad cholesterol.